
CYK Algorithm for Context-Free Grammar Parsing

•   By: 
    Ana Sofia Alfonso
    David Alejandro Ramírez

•   Overview:
    This project implements the Cocke-Younger-Kasami (CYK) algorithm for parsing strings based on a given context-free grammar (CFG). The algorithm determines whether a given string can be generated by the CFG. We’ve implemented this algorithm in Python 3.10.

•	Programming Language: 
    Python 3.10

•	Tools: 
    PyCharm 2023.1.4 
    GitHub (https://github.com/edgarlarios/Algoritmo-CYK) 
    Dexter C. Kozen, Automata and Computability


•  Understanding the CYK Algorithm Function:
    The CYK function implements the Cocke-Younger-Kasami (CYK) algorithm.
    It takes two parameters: G, which represents the grammar rules, and str, which is the string to be evaluated.
    The function returns "yes" if the string can be generated by the given grammar rules, and "No" otherwise.

•   Input and Output:
    The Start function handles input and output operations.
    It prompts the user to input the grammar rules and strings to evaluate.
    It utilizes the CYK function to determine whether each string is accepted by the grammar.
    It returns a dictionary containing the strings as keys and their corresponding acceptance status ("yes" or "No") as values.

•  Instructions to run the Program:
    Execute the Python script in a Python environment.
    Input the number of test cases.
    For each test case input the number of non-terminal symbols and the number of strings to evaluate, also the rules of the grammar and the strings you want to evaluate.
    Example:
    Input:
    2                   # Number of test cases
    2 1                 # Number of non-terminal symbols and strings to evaluate for test case 1
    S AB BC             # Grammar rules for test case 1
    A a
    B b
    C c
    abc                 # String to evaluate for test case 1
    1 1                 # Number of non-terminal symbols and strings to evaluate for test case 2
    S AB BC             # Grammar rules for test case 2
    A a
    B b
    C c
    xyz                 # String to evaluate for test case 2
    
    Output:
    abc -> yes          # Result for test case 1: The string "abc" can be generated by the given grammar.
    xyz -> No           # Result for test case 2: The string "xyz" cannot be generated by the given grammar.
